---
artist: Emily Fernandes
title: Stephanie and Lisa
---
The works Stephanie and Lisa take both conceptual and visual inspiration from 80s sci-fi horror films and their props, exploring themes of mental health, deconstruction of bodies under capitalism, and existential dread. Like 80s sci-fi props that had moving elements and practical effects, these sculptures have practical effects of their own and are meant to perform the act of breath and heartbeat. In Fernandes' work she aims to explore the concept of existence and what it means to be alive. Is the experience of life just a heartbeat and breath? By that criteria, these sculptures aim to perform existence, while at the same time are hollow shells of "flesh", apathetic, unloving, unfeeling, and unable to experience the fundamental sensations of being alive. In these works she is also interested in exploring the commodification of the human body and spirit under capitalism. What happens when a person is caught as a cog within these systems, and they lose agency over their lives and are reduced to existing in a mechanical loop? Or what happens to our relationship with existence when the fundamentals of the human experience are repackaged and sold to us under capitalism, and we consume these goods making us all agents in our own explotation. Fernandes is interested in the commodification of human existence, which results in reducing humanity to sacs of meat whose purpose is to consume. Most of all she is interested in losing what makes us human beyond the body and the existential dread of continuing to be "alive" once it is lost.
